Note. This is just a note, nothing more. Not endrsment, not a message.

(via https://mobile.twitter.com/DmitryOpines/status/1497245367456473091)

The goal of externally facing Russian propaganda is not to convince you that Putin is unequivocally right. They'd like that but know it's unrealistic and more importantly unnecessary to achieve their objectives. All they need is for you to become confused or ambivalent. Why?
Because just about any measure a government contemplates to punish Russia entails pain for its own interests as well. Whether you are buying Russian gas or selling Russians Gucci there is a lucrative status quo that sanctions would disrupt. Incentive is to do nothing. But...
The situation is all over the news. Your people, the international community and perhaps even your conscience, demand action. Russian propaganda aims to dilute that pressure and create a permission structure for you to do what's commercially lucrative: token action or none. This is why it can seem like Russia's publicly declared reasons for the war are an ever-changing and barely coherent morass of unrelated arguments. They aim to throw enough at the wall that the resulting mosaic will be dizzying and exhausting, even if they're not compelling.
They also know that the best way to ensure their messages are amplified, repeated and shared virally is to ensure they slot neatly into existing culture wars or political fault lines. If they use the right buzzwords (woke, CIA, Nazi), they'll get amplified. And they do. They also, very importantly, don't need you to think they're the good guys. They just need you to think Ukrainians are as bad, or even merely bad enough not to be worth making sacrifices or taking risks for. A permission structure to declare a pox on all houses & tune out.
If all this sounds familiar to you from domestic politics, it should. Any number of recent Western leaders and their client press champions have, when in a scandal, resorted to both sideism and "Ah, but isn't everyone a bastard?" rather than defend their own actions.

Quote: "The point of modern propaganda isn't only to misinform or push an agenda. It is to exhaust your critical thinking, to annihilate truth." https://twitter.com/kasparov63/status/808750564284702720
Context: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wcy8uLjRHPM
