goal, method, procedure <- wrong, but a start

goal formation

org culture rises and changes in crisis, pay attention to decisions and values when times are hard because that's when norms and expectations are set.
(ref?)

Tactics is what you do when there is something to do; strategy is what you do when there is nothing to do. 
The winner of the game is the player who makes the next-to-last mistake.
both https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Savielly_Tartakower

"Learning by Dying: Combat Performance in the Age of Sail" - 1650-1815, british navy reduced capitan mortality by 90% by being better at learning. More time on water, more fights, better promotion system and one based on performance, very good pay and mostly as bonuses.
Winning meant making less mistakes, starting with fight/flight and timing of that actiton and managing reception home. Mentorship was critical, and later pefromance of the mentee heavily weighted on the mentor's cerdibility.

"If you're Noah, and your ark is about to sink, look for the elephants first, because you can throw over a bunch of cats, dogs, squirrels, and everything else that is just a small animal and your ark will keep sinking. But if you can find one elephant to get overboard, you're in much better shape." ~ Vilfredo Pareto
Pareto.. duh


If you try to improve the performance of a system of people, machines, and procedures by setting numerical goals for the improvement of individual parts of the system, the system will defeat your efforts and you will pay a price where you least expect it.
You can manage what you do not understand; but you cannot lead it.
"Quality First: Selected Papers on Quality & Productivity Improvement". Book by Myron Tribus, Washington, D.C.: National Society of Professional Engineers (#1459), 1992.

Research shows that the climate of an organization influences an individuals contribution far more than the individual himself.
Does experience help? NO! Not if we are doing the wrong things.
Nobody goes to work to do a bad job.
The customer is the most important part of the production line.
Eighty-five percent of the reasons for failure are deficiencies in the systems and process rather than the employee. The role of management is to change the process rather than badgering individuals to do better.
In God we trust; all others bring data. (Hubbard!)
Improve quality, you automatically improve productivity.
The ultimate purpose of collecting the data is to provide a basis for action or a recommendation. <- what action or recommendation is _that_ data supporting?
Manage the cause, not the result.
You cannot inspect quality into the product; it is already there.
Each system is perfectly designed to give you exactly what you are getting today.
...a person and an organization must have goals, take actions to achieve those goals, gather evidence of achievement, study and reflect on the data and from that take actions again. Thus, they are in a continuous feedback spiral toward continuous improvement. This is what 'Kaizan' means.
Management by results - like driving a car by looking in rear view mirror.
The most valuable "currency" of any organization is the initiative and creativity of its members. Every leader has the solemn moral responsibility to develop these to the maximum in all his people. This is the leader's highest priority. <- behold M&As, or new managers
A goal without a method is nonsense. <- strategy?
Uncontrolled variation is the enemy of quality. <- this is how security fails so often
Understanding variation is the key to success in quality and business.
We should work on our process, not the outcome of our processes.
Defects are not free. Somebody makes them, and gets paid for making them. <- vulnerabilities
A committee appointed by the President of a company will report what the President wishes to hear. Would they dare report otherwise?. <- incentives, independent audit
Deming
